Agile Methodology, as the name suggests, is a set of methods and practices where software development and project management take place to deliver customer-centric products in a short development cycle known as sprints. 

It is an iterative approach and each iteration is specially designed to be small and manageable so that it can be delivered in a specific given period of time. Agile methodologies are open to changing requirements over time and encourage constant feedback from end-users. 

It is the most popular approach because, in this process, customers are also involved so that they can get updates regarding their product and also make sure whether or not they are meeting their requirements. 

Agile manifesto

Principle of agile?
•	Individuals and interactions over processes and tools.
•	Working software over comprehensive documentation.
•	Customer collaboration over contract negotiation.
•	Responding to change over following a plan.

Types of agile?
Kanban
Scrum
Lean
Extreme programming
crystal

12 agile principles in agile manifesto?
1. Our highest priority is to satisfy the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software.
2. Welcome changing requirements, even late in development. Agile processes harness change for the customer’s competitive advantage.
3.Deliver working software frequently, from a couple of weeks to a couple of months, with a preference to the shorter timescale.
4.Business people and developers must work together daily throughout the project.
5.Build projects around motivated individuals. Give them the environment and support they need, and trust them to get the job done.
6.The most efficient and effective method of conveying information to and within a development team is face-to-face conversation.
7. Working software is the primary measure of progress.
8.Agile processes promote sustainable development. The sponsors, developers, and users should be able to maintain a constant pace indefinitely.
9.Continuous attention to technical excellence and good design enhances agility.
10. Simplicity–the art of maximizing the amount of work not done–is essential.
11. The best architectures, requirements, and designs emerge from self-organizing teams.
12. At regular intervals, the team reflects on how to become more effective, then tunes and adjusts its behavior accordingly.

What are your framework when dealing with processes? Red flag if they are not doing agile.

Scrum is a team based framework to develop
Kanban board Trello
User stories

Three pillars of scrum?
Transparency
Inspection
Adaptation

Scrum roles?
Product owner
Scrum master
Development team

Scrum team?
Co located
Engaged with the customers
Self-organising
Accountable and empowered
Cross functional
Features epics and user stories
User persona

What are business requirments?
Service, function or feature that a user needs

What is a user stories?
Define your end user
Specify what they want
Describe the benefits
Add acceptance criteria
As a type of user I want goal so that reason
Does include all the details
Only a pointer to real requirements

Acceptance criteria?
set of predefined requirements that must be met to mark a user story complete.

Epic is a large user stories – overarching goals

Writing good user stories – INVEST
Independent
Negotiable
Valuable
Estimable

Three C’s of user stories?
Card - written description of the story
Conversation - Discuss ideas with others. Lots of asking questions
Confirmation - Work towards agreement on what to build

User want to know the weather conditions/weather app built in so that their customer can check whether it’s the right time to parachute.
User want to have a online store so that they can sell kits to their customer
User want a events calendar (events calender app built in) so that they can show upcoming events, lesson, sales etc.

As a customer I would like to be able to check the weather conditions so that I can cancel or postpone my booking 
As a customer I would like to be able to shop online so that I can buy or hire kits
As a customer I would be able to use paypal to pay 
As a customer I would be able to 
As a customer I would like to be able to access the events calendar so that I can view and book any upcoming events, view dates of sales, and the different lessons that are on offer at the parachuting school.

Gherkin scenario?
Given 
When
Then

Given that I am on the event calendar page
When I clicked on the calendar
Then I should be able to access the calendar and be able to view or if possible be able to book any upcoming events, enter into competitions, look up dates of sales event and offers

Given that I am on the online shop,
And I add items to the basket using the +- button
When I clicked on the basket tab
Then I should be able to be what items and their quantities that I have bought or hire


image.png

One technique is Planning poker used for estimating building.

Definition of ready in Scrum
 - means that stories must be immediately actionable. 
 - The Team must be able to determine what needs to be done and the amount of work required to complete the User Story
image.png

Definition of done in scrum
-  shared understanding within the Scrum Team on what it takes to make your Product Increment releasable. DONE = Releasable.
- it's the acceptance criteria that are common to every single user story
image.png

Scrum Retrospective?
- Set the stage
- Gather data
- Generate insights
- Decide what to do
- Close the retro
- Team retrospective board

