Shell notes

What is an operating system?
An operating system controls the hardware of a computer
The OS consists of bootloader, kernel, daemons, networking, shell, GUI
and applications.

CLI vs GUI?

What is Shell?

Type of Shell?
Bash shell
Powershell

Computer architecture
image.png

Developer branch is for testing
Push to main branch

Benefits of Git is:
Conflict If push at same time. Git ask which version to use.
Modify files everyone

~ list of commands ~

cd to change directory

mkdir to make directory

touch to create, change or modify files

cat to read data from the file and gives their content as output

code to open files with vs code editor

Rm delete files

Rmdir delete directory

python --version to check version of python

Git status to display the state of the working directory and the staging area

Git init creates a new Git repository 

Add commit push monitor track version control

Git commit -m will save all staged changes, along with a brief description from the user, in a “commit” to the local repository. -m option is to include message. Short description of the changes being commited

Git log shows a list of all the commits made to a repository.

Git remote add origin “https://github.com/BA-cybersec/eng114_devOps.git”

Git push -u main used to upload local repository content to a remote repository. Main option is used to push to main

Rm -rf to delete directory

Git reset --hard “commit” reset the staging area and the working directory to match the most recent commit. In addition to unstaging changes, the --hard flag tells Git to overwrite all changes in the working directory

Git clean –fxd removes local untracked files from the current git branch. Force removal with -f. Remove untracked directories as well with -d. This allows removing all untracked files, including build products. This can be used to create a pristine working directory to test a clean build

Git checkout main switch branches to main

Git checkout dev switch branches tp dev

Git diff shows the differences between the files in two commits or between your current repository and a previous commit

Git add . adds all modified and new (untracked) files in the current directory and all subdirectories to the staging area, thus preparing them to be included in the next git commit.

Git clone primarily used to point to an existing repo and make a clone or copy of that repo at in a new directory, at another location

Git merge take the independent lines of development created by git branch and integrate them into a single branch.


